# Camara QoD meeting

### Date: 6-th of May 2022

## Attendees

* ***Marcin Jarząb (DT)***
* ***Mariusz Sozanski (DT)***
* ***Steffen Drüsedow(DT)***
* ***Shilpa Padgaonkar (DT)***
* ***Petar Torre (Intel)***
* ***Francesc Guim (Intel)***
* ***Ali Tizghadam (Telus)***
* ***Jose Antonio Ordonez Lucena (TEF)***
* ***Sylvain Morel (Orange)***
* ***Patrice Conil (Orange)***
* ***Toshi WAKAYAMA (KDDI)***
* ***Jan Friman (E///)***
* ***Emil Zhang (E///)***
* ***Joachim Dahlgren (E///)***
* ***Eric Murray (Vodafone)***
* ***Ivan Nieto (Vodafone)***
* ***Andrew Wajs (Scenera)***

<br>
**NEW address:** All QoD minutes link: [https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

Goals

* Go through last MoM action items
* Identify additional tasks, prepare upcoming ones

## Agenda Proposal / Discussion items

| Agenda Item | Who |  |
| ----------- | --- | --- |
| **Welcome & Recap** |  |  |
|  |  | <span class="s1">Repository&nbsp;</span><span class="s1">&nbsp;address:<span class="Apple-converted-space">&nbsp;</span>[https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand)</span> |
|  |  | \- API version 1\.2\.0 specs are available at: [https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/code/API\_definitions](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/code/API_definitions)<br>\- Reviews from WG members discussed and worked on using open issues:<br>[https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues) <br>\- topics started to be addressed within relevant GitHub issues \- thank you\! |
| **CURRENT ISSUES** |  | **Total: 11 [ Open: 3 , Closed: 8 ]** |
| Issue QoD#12<br>*\- Create user stories for QoD in line with Commonalities standard* | DT | - As agreed previously in issue #3, please use the Commonalities User Story Template that has been just finalized to align the QoD User Stories with the Camara common template.<br>\* Contribute user stories based on template<br>\* *DT is working internally (DOC internal review)*<br>**Status : Open/Active development \* Update : User stories and API-docs under internal review in DT** |
| Issue #7<br>*\- Add new endpoint in QoD API to request available qos\_profiles\(Discovery API\)* | DT | Issue #7 (*enhancement*) labeled as QoD-backlog due to other on-going priorities<br>\- the operation is going to be performed through discovery<br>\- could be an additional way of addressing issue \#1 \(see Vodafone's [comment](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/1))<br>**Status : Open/Active development**<br>\* DT will check internaly with DEV team -> <i>**agreed and&nbsp;defined within "current" Sprint scope**</i><br>**\* Activity started and "internal" proposal being discussed : *(on-going activity)*** |
| **NEW ISSUES** |  |  |
| *Issue not assigned ID*<br>-Notifications / Authentications on server side | Orange | Patrice@Orange - Notifications / Authentications on server side<br> \* Have owners of security topic and prepare dedicated technical meeting (related to #8)<br> \* <b>*Topic to be discussed within Commonalities group (TBC)*</b> |
| Testing and Validation | DT,<br>Orange | \* we need to start to summary leassons learnt from Dev/Validate   <br>\* pririties on validation , make some progress <br>  -> test cases definition for BW/Latency management  <br>\* DT internal solution TBC  <br>  -> what is the requirement / QoS profiles : on-demand resource reservation and numbers <br>    UPlink flow for Video/Control function <br>    based on the solution definition of testing requirments would be easier to define and understand <br>\* Orange <br>  conditions in which API is called etc<br>   ->  will prepare some short material  |
| Transform Function | TEF | Goal : Service API will deliver consistent funcionality for End-users<br>\- Metrics names and target goals <br>\- How to include into Transform Function <br>\- testing workflow defined and included: CAMARA API / Transform / NEF <br>-> short overview of idea be prepared by TEF |
| **QoD Backlog** |  |  |
| Issue #8<br>*-Impact of verification for authorised recipient (e.g. UE) on API spec* | All | Issue #8 outcome can impact the QoD API (e.g. GPSI id vs IP identification).<br>This may be also loosely related to Commonalities Authentication & Authorization standards and [Commonalities issue #4](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/4):<br>the [proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx) to identify UEs primarily with GPSI (in any existing format either MSISDN or ext identifier) and optionally with UE IP or MAC.<br>\* the auth by GPSI is initially accepted by the workgroup - still, <i>**the impact on API def is to be analyzed**</i><br>\* technical discussion on-going (include Commonalities) : Security and Auth will not be part of API<br>\* E/// proposed to close *(Confirmed during the meeting)*<br>**Status: Open/Active discussion -> Close (@Eric)** |
| **AOB** |  |  |
|  |  | 1\. Organization of QoD community \(R&D improvements\)<br>  \* GSMA OPAG/OPG collaboration / contribution still being discussed       <br>2\. Next QoD meeting in two weeks on the 20th of May\. |