# Camara QoD meeting

### Date: 18 Mar 2022

## Attendees

* **Petar Torre (Intel)**
* **Cesc Guim (Intel)**
* **Toshi WAKAYAMA (KDDI)**
* **Jan Friman (E///)**
* **Emil Zhang (E///)**
* **Joachim Dahlgren (E///)**
* **Eric Murray (Vodafone)**
* **Kevin Smith (Vodafone)**
* **Ivan Nieto (Vodafone)**
* **Steffen Drüsedow (DT)**
* **Marcin Jarząb (DT)**

<br>
**NEW address:** All QoD minutes link: [https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

Goals

* Go through last MoM action items
* Identify additional tasks, prepare upcoming ones

## Agenda Proposal / Discussion items

| Agenda Item | Who |  |
| ----------- | --- | --- |
| **Welcome & Recap** |  |  |
|  |  | <span class="s1">**NEW** repository structure:</span><br><span class="s1">\* the steering committee decided to move the working groups and QOD API subproject to separate repositories</span><br><span class="s1">\* new QoD repo address:<span class="Apple-converted-space">&nbsp;</span>[https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand)</span><br><span class="s1">\* new organisation of directories</span> |
|  |  | \- API version 1\.2\.0 specs are available at: [https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/code/API\_definitions](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/code/API_definitions)<br>\- Reviews from WG members discussed and worked on using open issues:<br>[https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues) <br>\- topics started to be addressed within relevant GitHub issues \- thank you\! |
|  |  |  |
| **CURRENT ISSUES** |  |  |
| Issue QoD#1<br>Create a mapping table for qos\_profiles | TEF/DT? | A reference draft has for discussion been published to:<br>[https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/main/code/API\_definitions/QoSProfile\_Mapping\_Table.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/main/code/API_definitions/QoSProfile_Mapping_Table.md)<br>\* <span class="s1">**Note**: This table is only an example that can be used within Camara for validating the QoD APIs</span><br>\* ToDO: please verify and comment through the GITHUB ISSUE your position on such mapping<br>\* change L to "up to unlimited" proposal as in Vodafone e.g. |
| Issue QoD#2<br>Document relevant notifications for QoD APIs | All | A placeholder for the list of notifications (e.g. *session\_termination* notification) relevant for the QoD API family has been created:<br>[https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/main/code/API\_definitions/Notifications.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/main/code/API_definitions/Notifications.md)<br>\* currently only *session\_termination* notification is present<br>\* ToDo: please document through issue if other notification may be relevant for the Service API |
|  |  |  |
| *QOD-BACKLOG* |  |  |
| Issue QoD#3 Questions on QoD user stories | DT | \- comment from TEF under the GitHub issue: We should follow user story template discussed in Commonalities WG for every selected use case\.\- Issue has been closed \- to be re\-opened upon completion of Commonalities User Stories template next week \(TODO\) |
| Issue #6<br>Consider additional specs: more network API specifications | E/// | Issue #6 - consider more network API specifications which have QoS support beyond the well-known NEF APIs<br>consider EES/SEAL also within CAMARA scope, but maybe as medium-term objective in the backlog.<br>\* ToDo: to be closed as the UEid has been proposed. |
| Issue #7<br>\- Add new endpoint in QoD API to request available qos\_profiles | DT | Issue #7 (*enhancement*) will be labeled as QoD-backlog due to other on-going priorities<br>\- the operation is going to be performed through discovery |
| Issue #8<br>impact of verification for authorised recipient (e.g. UE) on API spec | All | Issue #8 outcome can impact the QoD API (e.g. GPSI id vs IP identification).<br>This may be also loosely related to Commonalities Authentication & Authorization standards and [Commonalities issue #4](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/4): the [proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx)<span class="s1">&nbsp;to identify UEs primarily with GPSI (in any existing format either MSISDN or ext identifier) and optionally with UE IP or MAC.</span><br><span class="s1">\* todo: please comment in the issue</span><br><span class="s1">\* the auth by GPSI is initially accepted by the workgroup - still, the impact on API def is to be analyzed</span> |
|  |  |  |
| **AOB** |  |  |
|  |  | 1\. Next QoD meeting in two weeks on the 1st of April\. |