# Camara QoD meeting - MOM-2023-08-11

*August 11th, 2023*

## Attendees

* Eric Murray (Vodafone)
* Thorsten Lohmar (Ericsson)
* Patrice Conil (Orange)
* Emil Zhang (Ericsson)
* Randy Levensalor (CableLabs)
* Toshiyasu Wakayama (KDDI)
* Syed A Rehman (Verizon)
* Jose Luis Urien Pinedo (Telefonica)
* Akos Hunyadi (Deutsche Telekom)
* Rafal Artych (Deutsche Telekom)
* Babu Narayan (Nabstract)
* Bhabani Panda (Meta)
* Vidhi Mehta (Comviva)

QoD minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Sub Project Management
* Open Issues
* Open PRs
* API Roadmap
* AOB

## Sub Project Management

* Release v0.9.0 done
* Next meeting on August 25th

## Open Issues (including backlog)

### Issues discussed during meeting

* [#199 QoD 0.9 - inline documentation problem](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/199)
  <br>Proposal to include link to Swagger editor or ReDoc formatted version of the API specification within the release notes
  - General agreement that this was a good idea
  - **Decisions:**
    - Add inline links to Swagger and Redoc formatted version of API definition to both release notes and README.md (for latest release)
    - Raise with Commonalties to make this a requirement for all APIs
    - Eric to request Herbert update release notes and README for QoD

* [#158 Add linting GitHub actions](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/158)
  <br>Automatic linting of API specification before being merged into repository
  - **Decisions:**
    - Agreed that this was a good time to test linting on v0.10.0-wip before this is further modified
    - Randy to look to implement this first for simple formatting update (prettifying) to understand how linting tools can be applied to the repository. If insufficient permissions for this, Randy will contact Herbert.

* [#194 Add Application Function Id (afId) or Sponsor Id](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/194)
  <br>Main use would be to relate usage data from the network to a specific application of the API customer. Relevant for API customers who have different applications or application functions which they want to monitor regarding usage seperately. Assumption is that the application information will not come with the access token (as that would require different access token per application).
  - Syed gave a [presentation](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/blob/6d6cca9162f491db6b5ff501d1bce80ece0ab900/documentation/SupportingDocuments/Presentations/Sponsor%20or%20App%20Id%20proposal.pptx) on this issue. The following clarifications and comments were made:
    - Relationship between API consumer Id, application server IP address, and proposed appId is not necessarily one-to-one
      - API consumer may be managing multiple application servers
      - Application servers may have more than one IP address, or share a single IP address with multiple applications
    - An alternative to explicitly identifying the application by appId would be for each application to be identified by a separate OAuth key / token
      - For some API consumers, however, this could be unmanageable
      - This solution would also be effectively proprietary, requiring the OAuth key identity to be extracted and passed to the API using, for example, a header
    - If an explicit appId was passed via the API, validating this would be an issue
      - Some workflow examples of appId validation and error cases would be useful
    - For mobile networks, appId would map to aspId (or sponsorId) of NEF. There is no equivalent mapping for fixed networks, so use of appId would likely be proprietary.
    - Accessing records by appId would remain proprietary for each API implementor, with no plans to introduce additional CAMARA APIs for this
    - This functionality (add application ID to the API call) might be relevant across several CAMARA APIs -> potentially issue to be opened in Commonalities.
  - **Decisions:**
    - Syed to make proposal on how appId would be introduced into the QoD API definition, and to give additional details on how it would be validated and used.

* [#147 Extend the query capabilities for Qos Profiles](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/147)
  <br>Previous discussion of options:
    - Use of comparisation operators on attributes. For that a definition in Commonalities (how to express in OAS) is pending. Challenge: need to be applied to complex object
    - Additional GET endpoint which delivers based on a profile object with required/desired parameters a list of QoD profiles which are fulfilling the required quality parameters (if existing). This would require a specific comparisation logic. GraphQL could be a blueprint, but QoD sub project should introduce that only if there is broader demand across CAMARA sub project. Discussion to be continued within issue.

  <br>Issue was further discussed during meeting:
    - Probably only required if the number of QoS profiles is large
      - For mobile networks, this is unlikely given the difficulties radio networks have in balancing multiple different QoS requirements
      - For fixed networks, it is more likely that the number of offered profiles will eventually be large, but not for initial deployements of the API
    - Exact requirements still not clear
      - Do we need ranges, or just greater than (or equal) or less than (or equal) to specified value?
    - API definition support for filtering by ranges / inequalities is currently being discussed in [Issue #10](https://github.com/camaraproject/Commonalities/issues/10) in Commonalities.
  - **Decisions:**
    - Probably not required for v0.10.0. Randy to consider when this might be required.
    - Randy to formalise requirements so that they can be fed into Commonalities and taken into account in any modified filtering scheme 

* [#173 Add support for DSCP markings for QoD sessions](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/173)
  - Randy proposed that DSCP be an explicit parameter of a QoS profile. Probably a single parameter applying to both upstream and downstream traffic.
  - Not clear how this parameter would apply to mobile network. Mobile network operators / equipment vendors input welcome.
  - Parameter could not be enforced outside of CSP's won network
  - **Decisions:**
    - Randy to make proposal to add DSCP as an explicit but optional parameter of the QoS profile
    - Mobile network operators / equipment vendors to comment in the issue of the value of this for mobile networks

### Issues not discussed during meeting

* [#101 List endpoint for active sessions of authenticated user](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/101)
* [#47 Include support for /PATCH sessions](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/47)
* [#31 Ensure secure handling of callback URL](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/31)
* [#45 Need to support ability to configure fallback qos](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/45)
* [#51 Proposal of IpFlowDescription to allow asymmetric QoS flows and (re)introduce protocol definitions](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/51)
* [#166 Extend QoS Profile queries to list profiles based on specific users or devices](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/166)

## Open PRs - Not directly discussed during meeting

* [#171 First pass for including linting for pull requests](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/171)
  Randy will split the PR into several smaller PRs to introduce linting step by step

* [#162 Add PATCH operation](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/162)
  See discussion of issue #47 (update: changed status of PR to "draft" as we first want to discuss the logic behind patching `duration`)


## API Roadmap

### Release 0.10.0

* September-October 2023? (as for DeviceStatus 0.6.0)
* Focus on stabilization of API definition, e.g. introduction of linting
* Changes expected from Authn/Authz discussion in Identity & Consent and from Notifiation/Subscription in Commonalities
* New features so far based on discussed issues
  * [#47 Include support for /PATCH sessions](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/47) (minimal set of attributes which can be patched)
  * [#101 List endpoint for active sessions of authenticated user](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/101) (incl authorization concept)
* Candidate features
  *  [#194 Add Application Function Id (afId) or Sponsor Id](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/194)
  *  [#173 Add support for DSCP markings for QoD sessions](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/173)
* Probably excluded from next release
  * [#147 Extend the query capabilities for Qos Profiles](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/147)


## AOB

* QoD maintainers are requested to actively support the resolution of issues which the sub project raised in Commonalities.
* The next call will be on August 25th, 2 PM CEST / 12:00 UTC
